{:title "Containers and images in docker"
 :layout :post}


Every few months, I need to come back to working with docker, and every time, I keep frogetting what all the different terms mean.

I'm writing them here to help cement them in my head, as it's increasingly frustrating remembering this stuff.

### My mental model

If you have done any object orientated programming where you deal with classes and instances of classes, it might help to think of docker images and containers as somewhat similar.

You can have a bunch of classes, that can depend on each other, to save on duplication of code.

You would often then _instantiate_ objects from these classes to work with.

I've found it helpful to think of containers and and images in this way. You might have a docker image, which can be is derived from chain of other images.

When you need to do some work, you create a _container_ to work with, or run somewhere, based on these images.


### Creating an image

For a concrete example, here's how, you'd create an new image giving it the tag `local`:


```bash
# build a new image using the default Dockerfile, with a tag of local

docker build --tag local .
```

Once you have this, you can then run a container based on this image:

```bash
docker run -it local
```

If you're running a web service, you'll likely want to a way for network traffic to come into and out of the container. You do this by exposing ports too, using `-p`, then pass in the two port numbers - first the 'host' post where the outer machine is listening, followed by the port where the container is listening.

They dont need to be the same.

> run a container based on the image "local", exposing the port 3000 on the container, to port 3000 on the host machine, letting traffic through

```shell
docker run -it local -p 3000:3000
```



